---
layout: post
title: "Decouple components and explicitly inject/manage the dependencies among them"
short_description: "Decouple components"
guideline_id: 1
date:   2019-05-21 01:00:41 +0200
categories: Generic
---
<h3>Why?</h3>
While not strictly necessary, utilizing a dependency injection framework
can drastically simplify the management of dependencies between Android architectural components. 
This supports a clean decoupling of architectural components and avoids unnecessary boilerplate for connecting them.
 Doing so not only improves the maintainability of the app, but also improves its testability by providing the possibility 
 to inject mock implementations. The Dagger framework is commonly recommended to inject dependencies and solve problems 
 afflicting reflection-based solutions.

<h3>Introduction</h3>
Dependency injection is a technique whereby one object supplies dependencies of another object.
So let's say I'm a chef in a kitchen. And I need to make meals for the customers.
But if I don't have the tools to create my dishes, nothing happens. I crash.
So we need someone to supply the tools, which is <b>Dagger</b>.

<b>Dagger</b> tells where all the dependencies are, and tells the objects not to worry. Because Dagger will provide the 
dependencies. To perform this dependency injection, dagger uses the following annotation:

<ul>
  <li><b>@Module and @Provides:</b> These classes provide the dependencies.</li>
  <li><b>@Inject: </b> The field which will be injected, this can be a field, a constructor or a method.</li>
  <li><b>@Component:</b> Which uses the selected modules, and performs the dependency injection.</li>
</ul>



<h3>Example</h3>
MVPLogin
We create a simple MVP login. 

{% highlight ruby %}
def print_hi(name)
  puts "Hi, #{name}"
end
print_hi('Tom')
#=> prints 'Hi, Tom' to STDOUT.
{% endhighlight %}

Check out the [Jekyll docs][jekyll-docs] for more info on how to get the most out of Jekyll. File all bugs/feature requests at [Jekyll’s GitHub repo][jekyll-gh]. If you have questions, you can ask them on [Jekyll Talk][jekyll-talk].

[jekyll-docs]: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/home
[jekyll-gh]:   https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll
[jekyll-talk]: https://talk.jekyllrb.com/
